thus says the Lord behold I will raise
up against Babylon against those who
dwell in let came I a destroying wind
and I will send winds to Babylon who
shall winnow her and empty her land for
in the day of doom they shall be against
her all around against her let the
archer bend his bow and lift himself up
against her in his Armour do not spare
her young men utterly destroy all her
army thus the slain shall fall in the
land of the Chaldeans and those thrust
through in her streets for Israel is not
forsaken nor Judah by his God the Lord
of Hosts though their land was filled
with sin against the Holy One of Israel
flee from the midst of Babylon and
everyone save his life
do not be cut off in her iniquity for
this is the time of the Lord's vengeance
he shall recompense her Babylon was a
golden cup in the Lord's hand that made
all the earth drunk the nation's drank
her wine therefore the nation's are
deranged Babylon has suddenly fallen and
been destroyed wail for her
take BOM for her pain perhaps she may be
healed we would have healed Babylon but
she is not healed forsake her and let us
go everyone to his own country for her
judgment reaches to heaven and is lifted
up to the skies the Lord has revealed
our of righteousness come and let us
declare in Zion the work of the Lord our
God make the arrows bright gather the
shields the Lord has raised up the
spirit of the kings of the Medes for his
plan is against Babylon to destroy it
because it is the Vengeance of the Lord
the vengeance for his temple said of the
standard on the walls of Babylon make
the guards strong set up the Watchmen
prepare the ambushes for the Lord has
both devised and done what he spoke
against the inhabitants of Babylon
o you who dwell by many waters abundant
in treasures your end has come the
measure of your covetousness the Lord of
Hosts has sworn by himself surely I will
fill you with men as with locusts and
they shall lift up a shout against you
he has made the earth by his power he
has established the world by his wisdom
and stretched out the heaven by his
understanding when he utters his voice
there is a multitude of waters in the
heavens he causes the vapors to ascend
from the ends of the earth
he makes lightnings for the rain he
brings the wind out of his Treasuries
everyone is dull hearted without
knowledge every metalsmith is
shame by the carved image for his molded
image is falsehood and there is no
breath in them they are futile a work of
errors in the time of their punishment
they shall perish the portion of Jacob
is not like them for he is the maker of
all things and Israel is the tribe of
his inheritance the Lord of Hosts is his
name
you are my battle axe and weapons war
for with you I will break the nation in
pieces with you I will destroy kingdoms
with you I will break in pieces the
horse and it's rider with you I will
break in pieces the chariot and its
rider with you also I will break in
pieces man and woman with you I will
break in pieces old and young with you I
will break in pieces the young man and
the maiden with you also I will break in
pieces the Shepherd and his flock with
you I will break in pieces the farmer
and his yoke of oxen and with you
I will break in pieces governors and
rulers and I will repay Babylon and all
the inhabitants of Chaldea for all the
evil they have done in Zion in your
sight
behold I am against you Oh destroying
mountain who destroys all the earth and
I will stretch out my hand against you
roll you down from the rocks and make
you a burnt Mountain they shall not take
from you a stone for a corner nor a
stone for a foundation but you shall be
desolate forever set up a banner in the
land
blow the trumpet among the nations
prepare the nations against her call the
kingdoms together against her Ararat
min.i and Ashkenaz appointed general
against her cause the horses to come up
like the bristling locusts prepare
against her the nations with the kings
of the Medes its governors and all its
rulers all the land of his Dominion and
the land will tremble and sorrow for
every purpose of the Lord shall be
performed against Babylon to make the
land of Babylon a desolation without
inhabitant the mighty men of Babylon
have ceased fighting they have remained
in their strongholds their might has
failed they became like women they have
burned her dwelling places the bars of
our gate are broken one runner will run
to meet another and one messenger to
meet another to show the king of Babylon
that his city is taken on all sides the
passages are blocked the reads they have
burned with fire and the men of war are
terrified
for thus says the Lord of hosts the God
of Israel the daughter of Babylon is
like a threshing floor when it is time
to Thresh her yet a little while and the
time of her harvest will come
Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon has
devoured me he has crushed me he has
made me an empty vessel
he has swallowed me up like a monster he
has filled his stomach with my
delicacies he has spit me out what the
violence done to me and my flesh be upon
Babylon the inhabitant of Zion will say
and my blood be upon the inhabitants of
Chaldea Jerusalem will say therefore
thus says the Lord behold I will plead
your case and take vengeance for you I
will dry up her sea and make her Springs
dry babylon shall become a heap a
dwelling place for jackals an
astonishment and a hissing without an
inhabitant they shall roar to gather
like lions they shall growl like lions
whilst in their excitement I will
prepare their feasts I will make them
drunk that they may rejoice and sleep a
perpetual sleep and not awake I will
bring them down like lambs to the
slaughter like Rams with male goats oh
how she Shak is taken oh how the praise
of the whole earth is seized our babylon
has become desolate among the nations
the sea has come up over Babylon she is
covered with the multitude of its waves
their cities are a desolation a dry land
a wilderness a land where no one dwells
through which no son of man passes I
will punish Belle in Babylon and I will
bring out of his mouth what he has
swallowed and the nations shall not
stream to him anymore yes the wall of
Babylon shall fall my people go out of
the midst of her and let everyone
deliver himself from the fierce anger of
the Lord and list your heart faint and
you fear for the rumour that will be
heard in the land a rumor will come one
year and after that in another year a
rumor will come and violence in the land
ruler against ruler therefore behold the
days are coming that I will bring
judgment on the carved images of Babylon
a whole land shall be ashamed and all
her slain shall fall in her midst then
the heavens and the earth and all that
is in them shall sing joyously over
Babylon for the plunderers shall come to
her from the north as Babylon has caused
the slain of Israel to fall so at
Babylon the slain of all the earth
you who have escaped the sword getaway
do not stand still remember the Lord
afar off and let Jerusalem come to your
mind we are ashamed because we have
heard reproach shame has covered our
faces for strangers have come into the
sanctuaries of the Lord's house
therefore behold the days are coming
says the Lord that I will bring judgment
on her carved images and throughout all
her land the wounded shall groan though
Babylon were to mount up to heaven and
though she were to fortify the height of
her strength yet from me plunderers
would come to her the sound of a cry
comes from Babylon and great destruction
from the land of the Chaldeans because
the Lord is plundering Babylon and
silencing her loud voice though her
waves roar like great waters and the
noise of their voice is uttered because
the plunder comes against her against
Babylon and her mighty men are taken
every one of their bows is broken for
the Lord is the God of recompense
he will surely repay and I will make
drunk her Prince's and wise men a
governor's a deputies and her mighty men
and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep
and not awake says the king whose name
is the Lord of Hosts thus says the Lord
of Hosts the broad walls of Babylon
shall be utterly broken and her high
gates shall be burned with fire the
people will labor in vain and the
nations because of the fire and they
shall be weary
the word which Jeremiah the Prophet
commanded suryya
the son of Neriah the son of Marcia when
he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah
to Babylon in the fourth year of his
reign and suryya
was the quartermaster so Jeremiah wrote
in a book all the evil that would come
upon Babylon all these words that are
written against Babylon and Jeremiah are
said to survive when you arrive in
Babylon and see it and read all these
words then you shall say O Lord you have
spoken against this place to cut it off
so that none shall remain in it neither
man nor beast but it shall be desolate
for ever now it shall be when you have
finished reading this book that you
shall tie a stone to it and throw it out
into the Euphrates then you shall say
thus Babylon shall sink and not rise
from the catastrophe that I will bring
upon her and they shall be weary thus
far are the words of Jeremiah